1) Browser security
Browser security is of paramount importance. A determined attacker could gain remote access to your machine via it. What's more, the web browser contains a wealth of valuable information (cookies, user agent, password, etc.). To protect it effectively, I strongly recommend using a browser designed to protect your privacy (at least Firefox, preferably librewolf, or even tor). The first step in strengthening your browser is to disable dangerous functions. Your browser should be in strict security mode, with “website privacy preferences” enabled. In addition, we recommend using extensions such as noscript and https everywhere to guarantee basic browser security. Once your browser is secure, you need to make it anonymous. For this, I recommend using the excellent extensions privacy badger, user agent switcher and manager, privacy opposum and ublock origine. For even greater anonymity, I definitely recommend using the “tor browser” which, through a triple proxy, provides (almost) total anonymity. 
TIPS:
-Don't store your passwords in your web browser; use KeePass as a password manager instead.
-Don't use a VPN. Although they sell themselves as “the best possible protection”, most communicate with the authorities and keep logs of absolutely everything.
-To connect to strange links, you can use the “croxyproxy” website. This will avoid the IP log.
-A good alternative to a VPN is a proxy

2) Use reliable services
Your digital OPSEC depends very heavily on the software you use to mask your identity. The browser and VPN you use will play a vital role in this part of your OPSEC. Once you've chosen your OS, encrypted your disks, configured and secured your browser, you'll need to start your browser. For most sites, you'll need (in order to create an account) an e-mail address, in some cases a telephone number, and even a PGP key. 
For e-mail, I definitely recommend tutamail. Indeed, tutamail is reputed to be 'nolog' and apparently doesn't store e-mails unencrypted on their servers. There are other e-mail services that offer this kind of service, such as protonmail. The best possible e-mail service to have would still be a locally hosted one, with all the servers used for receiving and sending e-mails running on your machines, at home.
As for the telephone number, it's hard to get one “anonymously”. However, it is possible to use a credit card (which can be obtained anonymously by purchasing it in monero) to buy an onOff subscription, a service that allows you to receive messages on another “disposable” telephone number. It is advisable to install the onOff application on a virtual machine running an Android OS. 
As for VPN (if you use one), I definitely recommend mulvad VPN, purchased via tor and paid for in monero.
For everything to do with communication, I recommend the use of signal, which is end-to-end encrypted to such an extent that it is used by many applications. It's worth remembering, however, that the best possible mode of communication in my opinion is e-mail, because it's easy to host and secure locally.
More generally, when it comes to using third-party services, remember that everyone is fallible and, what's more, you probably won't know when the person running the service will make a mistake. I can only advise you to run as many applications as possible locally, with open source code.

3) Encrypting conversations
When a third-party service you use is compromised by an attacker, traces of your messages and conversations can be recovered. Whether your ISP (Internet Service Provider), your chat application or even the third party you're communicating with has been compromised, if your messages are not encrypted, anyone can see them and read them. To counter this, there's a solution: PGP. PGP is an asymmetric encryption system (the key used to make the message impossible to understand is different from the key used to make the message understandable again). To use PGP, you can use the kleopatra application. I won't dwell on how to create and use these PGP keys - I think I'll write a guide to them in the future. I therefore recommend using PGP keys for every discussion exchanged on a digital medium, such as e-mail, SMS, etc. It should be noted that there are certainly many other ways of protecting your privacy and the content of your messages, but none is as easy to use and as robust as PGP.
